In this lesson, we're going to create an individual IAM user account that we can log in with throughout
the rest of the course.
So just to contrast the root user versus an IAM user.
Remember that the root user logs in with the email address that we use to create the accounts.
Now, the root user has full permissions to the accounts, and those are totally unrestricted.
And in fact, it's very difficult, if not impossible, to remove permissions from the root user accounts.
And that's why it's dangerous to keep logging in with the root user account.
So what we're going to do is create an IAM user and that user will have a friendly name like John O'Neill
or whatever you want to call your users and needs to supply the account side or the alias at log in
for IAM users.
We have complete control over the permissions that we assign to them so we can use IAM permissions policies
to assign the specific permissions that a user needs to perform their role in the organization.
Now I've come back over to the IWC management console and I'm on the dashboard for the IAM service on
the left hand side where we're going to click on users.
Click add, users.
And the first thing you need to supply is the username.
In my case, I'm going to choose Neil on the access type.
There's two different access types that we can supply to the user.
We can either enable programmatic access or management, console access or both.
Now, programmatic access means that you're using certain credentials called an access kiddie and a
secret access key to interact with IWC using the API.
The Seelye or the SDK and all of that will be covered a bit later on in the course.
I'm not going to enable programmatic access at this point in time.
I'm going to enable management console access.
I'm going to supply a custom password and I don't want to require a password reset, so I'm going to
disable that option.
Click on Next.
And now we come to permissions.
So how do we assign permissions to users?
Well, remember we can attach policies directly to users, which is an option up here, and we have
a whole load of policies that are predefined.
These are AWG managed policies.
We could choose one of those and attach it to the user.
We could copy the permissions from another user.
If we have one, we don't.
Or you can add the user to a group.
Now I prefer the group option and it is a best practice.
So I'm actually going to create a group.
I'm going to give the group a name.
It's just going to be called admins and this group is going to have administrator access.
So I'm going to assign the policy administrator access and create the group.
The group is selected, so this user will be added to the group.
Let's click on next on the tag so you can add key value pairs to your user accounts and you can add
tags to lots of different resources in us.
So, for example, we might add a key value pair of departments with a value of administrators, and
that could be useful later on if we wanted to use this information to find users who have this tag applied
to them.
Let's click on next and go to the review screen.
Everything's ready.
So we're going to create this user.
So the user is being created.
You can email logging instructions to the user.
I know what, Linus, I'm just going to close out of here, and we now have our user account created
now under user groups.
You'll notice that we now have the admins group, and if we click on that group and look at permissions,
we can see the administrator access policy if I expand this policy here.
You can see the JSON code that makes up the policy statement and JSON stands a JavaScript object notation.
Now in this statement, and you'll learn a lot more about this a bit later on, we can see that we have
an effect of allow an action of star.
That's a wild card, which means any and a resource which is also a wildcard.
So essentially this allows any action on any resource.
So we now have a user set up with full administrative permissions to the account.
So let's log in as our new user and top right hand side of the screen.
I'm going to sign out because we need to sign out from our root account first.
Let's click on, log back in, choose IAM user.
We're going to supply the account alias, which in my case is DCC, IWC Cloud Labs.
We can select remember this accounts.
Choose next and then supply our username and password.
So my username is Neil.
I'll put in my password and then click on Sign In.
And so now I'm signed in as Neil, which you can see up in the top right hand side here, says Neil
A..
And then the account's alias.
So that's it, we're now able to log in with our individual user accounts and have full administrative
permissions over the accounts, so we no longer need to log in as rates.